---
layout: post
title: Flying my Syma X5C with my son
date: 2015-07-20 22:01:49.000000000 +00:00
categories: []
tags:
- Quad Copter
- Syma X5C
- Drone
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta:
  _rest_api_published: '1'
  _rest_api_client_id: "-1"
  _wpas_skip_facebook: '1'
  _wpas_skip_google_plus: '1'
  _wpas_skip_linkedin: '1'
  _wpas_skip_tumblr: '1'
  _wpas_skip_path: '1'
  publicize_twitter_user: stephenemo
  publicize_twitter_url: http://t.co/HScXosy7px
  _wpas_done_5415324: '1'
  _publicize_done_external: a:1:{s:7:"twitter";a:1:{i:36781241;b:1;}}
author:
  login: emospacemonkey
  email: stephen.emo@gmail.com
  display_name: emospacemonkey
  first_name: ''
  last_name: ''
excerpt: !ruby/object:Hpricot::Doc
  options: {}
---
Well I have been playing with my Syma X5C Quad Copter for over a month now and it is still going strong even though it has been dropped straight out of the sky by shutting down the rotors so it doesnt blow into the farmers fields close by. I have been using it under the pretence of teaching my 4 year old son how to fly it which explains the short flights in the youtube video below. However given that is so light means that we can let it fall once it gets out of eyesight though I am flying over long grass as you can see below. The downside of being light is that a heavy gust of wind will blow it out of eyesight if you get it real high and believe me it does fly very high. Then it is best to drop it out of the sky while you can still see it.

I was surprised that there was audio as well on the device as I don'y think you will be interested in recording what someone is saying unless you intend to land it in someone's house and do some 007 spying. I am lucky to have a building site behind our house which gives plenty of space to fly it. I havent needed to change the rotors or anything though after one steep fall I had to recailbrate it by putti The setting it on the ground flat in the house and moving both joysticks to the bottom right until the lights flashed and then stopped. This rebalanced the rotors.

I would recommend this Quad Copter the Syma  X5C as it is about 35 pounds of amazon for a capable quad copter with HD video and audio. It can take stills as well by down pressing the left button on the remote control.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/0yzbrEuymd8" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
